Automate deployment in CloudRun environment#205 (#294)
devonfw/hangar: documentation/src/common_templates/setup-deploy-cloud-run-pipeline.asciidoc

= Setting up a Deploy in Cloud Run {pipeline_type} on {provider}

In this section we will create a {pipeline_type} to deploy a service in Cloud Run. {trigger_sentence}.

The creation of the {pipeline_type2} will follow the project workflow, so a new branch named `feature/deploy-cloud-run` will be created and the YAML file for the {pipeline_type} will be pushed to it.

ifndef::no-PR-or-MR[]
Then, a Pull Request (PR) will be created in order to merge the new branch into the appropriate branch (provided in `-b` flag). The PR will be automatically merged if the repository policies are met. If the merge is not possible, either the PR URL will be shown as output, or it will be opened in your web browser if using `-w` flag.

endif::[]
ifdef::no-PR-or-MR[]
Then, the new branch will be merged into the appropriate branch (provided in `-b` flag).

endif::[]

> The script located at `/scripts/pipelines/{path_provider}/pipeline_generator.sh` will automatically create this new branch, create a build {pipeline_type} based on a YAML template appropriate for the project programming language or framework, create the Pull Request and, if it is possible, merge this new branch into the specified branch.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The script located at `/scripts/pipelines/{path_provider}/pipeline_generator.sh` will automatically create this new branch, create a deploy {pipeline_type} based on a YAML template appropriate for targeting Cloud Run, create the Pull Request and, if it is possible, merge this new branch into the specified branch.
```

ifdef::extra_sentence_ci[]
{extra_sentence_ci}

endif::[]
== Prerequisites

> This script will commit and push the corresponding YAML template into your repository, so please be sure your local repository is up-to-date (i.e you have pulled latest changes with `git pull`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* This script will commit and push the corresponding YAML template into your repository, so please be sure your local repository is up-to-date (i.e you have pulled latest changes with `git pull`).
```

> This {pipeline_type} uses variables set during the package pipeline, so be sure to have set it correctly before creating this one.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* This {pipeline_type} consumes variables set by the package {pipeline_type}, so be sure to correctly setup it before creating this one.
```

== Creating the {pipeline_type} using provided script

=== Usage
[subs=attributes+]
```
pipeline_generator.sh \
  -c <config file path> \
  -n <{pipeline_type} name> \

>   -l <language or framework> \

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

  -d <project local path> \
  --service-name  <service name> \

>   --gcloud-region <Gcloud region> \

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  --gcloud-region <gcloud region> \

```

  [--port <listening port>] \
  [-b <branch>] \
ifndef::no-PR-or-MR[  [-w]]
ifdef::machineType[  [-m <machine type for {pipeline_type} runner>]]
```

> NOTE: The config file for the build {pipeline_type} is located at `/scripts/pipelines/{path_provider}/templates/build/build-pipeline.cfg`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: The config file for the deploy {pipeline_type} is located at `/scripts/pipelines/{path_provider}/templates/deploy-cloud-run/deploy-cloud-run-pipeline.cfg`.

```

=== Flags
[subs=attributes+]
```
-c, --config-file        [Required] Configuration file containing {pipeline_type} definition.
-n, --pipeline-name      [Required] Name that will be set to the {pipeline_type}.

> -l, --language           [Required] Language or framework of the project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

-d, --local-directory    [Required] Local directory of your project.

>     --service-name       [Required] Name for the cloud run service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    --service-name       [Required] Name for the Cloud Run service.
```

    --gcloud-region      [Required] Region where the service will be deployed.

>     --port                          Listening port of the service. (default: 8080)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    --port                          Listening port of the service. Default: 8080.

```

-b, --target-branch                 Name of the branch to which the Pull Request will target. PR is not created if the flag is not provided.
ifndef::no-PR-or-MR[-w                                  Open the Pull Request on the web browser if it cannot be automatically merged. Requires -b flag.]
ifdef::machineType[-m, --machine-type                  Machine type for {pipeline_type} runner. Accepted values: E2_HIGHCPU_8, E2_HIGHCPU_32, N1_HIGHCPU_8, N1_HIGHCPU_32.]
```

=== Examples
[subs=attributes+]
```

> ./pipeline_generator.sh -c ./templates/build/build-pipeline.cfg -n application -l quarkus -d C:/Users/$USERNAME/Desktop/project --service-name application --gcloud-region europe-southwest1 --port 80 -b develop {openBrowserFlag}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
./pipeline_generator.sh -c ./templates/deploy-cloud-run/deploy-cloud-run-pipeline.cfg -n project-deploy -d C:/Users/$USERNAME/Desktop/project --service-name application --gcloud-region europe-southwest1 --port 80 -b develop {openBrowserFlag}
```

= Setting up a Deploy in Cloud Run {pipeline_type} on {provider}

> In this section we will create a {pipeline_type} to deploy the project application as a service in Cloud Run. {trigger_sentence}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this section we will create a {pipeline_type} to deploy the project application as a service in Google Cloud Run. {trigger_sentence}.

```

endif::[]
ifdef::no-PR-or-MR[]
Then, the new branch will be merged into the appropriate branch (provided in `-b` flag).

endif::[]

The script located at `/scripts/pipelines/{path_provider}/pipeline_generator.sh` will automatically create this new branch, create a deploy {pipeline_type} based on a YAML template appropriate for targeting Cloud Run, create the Pull Request and, if it is possible, merge this new branch into the specified branch.

ifdef::extra_sentence_ci[]
{extra_sentence_ci}

endif::[]
== Prerequisites

* This script will commit and push the corresponding YAML template into your repository, so please be sure your local repository is up-to-date (i.e you have pulled latest changes with `git pull`).

* This {pipeline_type} consumes variables set by the package {pipeline_type}, so be sure to correctly setup it before creating this one.

== Creating the {pipeline_type} using provided script

=== Usage
[subs=attributes+]
```
pipeline_generator.sh \
  -c <config file path> \
  -n <{pipeline_type} name> \
  -d <project local path> \
  --service-name  <service name> \
  --gcloud-region <gcloud region> \

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
